# Dashboard

An introduction should be here explaining what the tutorial is about, motivation, what are we trying to achieve

## Tutorial 1

Overview of the tutorial 1

Guide to build a docker container with our market data stack (bulldozer, extractor) and display metrics generated by it in a Grafana dashboard.

### Steps

#### Install prerequisites

##### PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is a database that Grafana uses as a data source for the dashboards.
Optionally you can test or make some changes on the database following the next PostgreSQL steps.

#### Run postgreSQL docker container 

```bash
docker run --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway -d --name=postgres -e POSTGRES_USER=testuser -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=testuser -p 5432:5432 postgres
```

#### Get PostgreSQL

```bash
sudo apt-get install postgresql
```

In mac:
```bash
brew install postgresql
```

#### Connect to the database

```bash
psql --dbname=testuser --host=localhost --port=5432 --username=testuser --password
```

#### Useful commands

Get a list of tables:
```bash
\dt
```
maybe note, note populated until extractor is actually running, there are no tables until the scripts are running

Show a specific table:
```bash
SELECT * FROM table_name
```

For more information visit https://www.postgresql.org

### Run Grafana docker container

```bash
docker run --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway -d --name=grafana -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
```

#### Grafana

Grafana is a multi-platform open source analytics and interactive visualization web application. It provides charts, graphs, and alerts for the web when connected to supported data sources.

You will be able to see the graphs if you open http://localhost:3000 on a browser and open the uploaded `market-data` dashboard.

For more information visit https://grafana.com/

#### Configure your PostgreSQL data source with Grafana

* Open http://localhost:3000 on a browser.
* Use `admin` for username and password.
* Select `skip` if you are still seeing login message.
* Click on `Add your first data source`.
* Select `PostgreSQL` as the data source and set the following parameters.
  * `Host`: `host.docker.internal:5432`.
  * `Database`: `POSTGRES_USER` (`testuser` in the example).
  * `User`: `POSTGRES_USER` (`testuser` in the example).
  * `Password`: `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` (`testuser` in the example).
  * `TLS/SSL Mode`: `disable`.
  * Click on `Save & test`.

#### Import your new dashboard to Grafana
* In the sidebar menu on the left, select `Dashboard/import` and upload the dashboard configuration file `dashboard_cfg.json` found in the repository.

### Copy bulldozer installer to this location

Get the bulldozer installer (e.g. bulldozer-1.0.3-Linux-x86_64.sh ) and copy it to the root of the repo.

### Build the tutorial 1 docker container

```bash
docker build --platform linux/amd64 -t tutotial1-demo -f tutorial1.docker .
```

### Run the tutorial 1 docker container 

// Command is blocking, probably a good idea to make the clients run it as detached mode

```bash
docker run --platform linux/amd64 --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway -d -e POSTGRES_USER=testuser -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=testuser tutotial1-demo
```

#### Run the components yourself

If you want to run each program yourself instead of just running the tutorial 1 docker container you can follow these next steps.

Yamal is our core library that handles YTP files and all of the components.
To install Yamal

```bash
wget https://github.com/featuremine/yamal/releases/download/v7.2.25/yamal-7.2.25-Linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xvzfk yamal-7.2.25-Linux-x86_64.tar.gz -C /
wget https://github.com/featuremine/yamal/releases/download/v7.2.25/yamal-7.2.25-py3-none-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.whl 
pip3 install yamal-7.2.25-py3-none-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.whl 
```

This didnt work well for me on mac, even with sudo i get error : `x lib/: Can't create 'lib'` i had to -C to /usr/local
also when installing even on linux paths it might be a better idea to install to usr local instead of the system bin

```bash
wget https://github.com/featuremine/yamal/releases/download/v7.2.25/yamal-7.2.25-Linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xvzfk yamal-7.2.25-Linux-x86_64.tar.gz -C /usr/local
wget https://github.com/featuremine/yamal/releases/download/v7.2.25/yamal-7.2.25-py3-none-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.whl 
pip3 install yamal-7.2.25-py3-none-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.whl 
```

Bulldozer is a cryptocurrency feed handler that outputs the exchange feed data into a YTP file.
Install the bulldozer component with the self-extracting installer

```bash
./bulldozer-1.0.3-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

Get coinbase data into a YTP file with the sample configuration

```bash
yamal-run -c bulldozer/installation/path/samples/coinbase_l2_ore_ytp.ini -s main
```

You can check whether the data is being written by bulldozer

```bash
yamal-stats -f ore_coinbase_l2.ytp
```

To look at the actual order book updates use:

```bash
python3 ytporedump.py --ytp ore_coinbase_l2.ytp --channel ore/imnts/coinbase/BTC-USD
```

`bulldozer2postgresql.py` runs `yamal-stats` on the YTP file and populates the postgreSQL database table bulldozer_rate with the data rate.

To run `bulldozer2postgresql.py` first install psycopg2(PostgreSQL database adapter)

```bash
sudo apt-get install libpq-dev // Why libpqdev? you dont need this on mac, do you need it on linux? is psycopg2 not independent of it?
pip3 install psycopg2
```

Run `bulldozer2postgresql.py` with the generated YTP file and the database credentials

// had to change env variables to testuser, not sure if its worth it to use env variables for this step on the wiki
```bash
python3 bulldozer2postgresql.py --database testuser --user testuser --password testuser --host localhost --ytp ore_coinbase_l2.ytp
```

`bars2postgresql.py` populates the postgreSQL database with the market data.

`bars2postgresql.py` uses the extractor, a high-performance real-time capable alpha research platform with an easy interface for financial analytics that allows you to set up a computational graph that optimizes how your computations are executed.

To install extractor and its requirements

```bash
pip3 install psycopg2 numpy==1.21.0 pytz pandas
wget https://github.com/featuremine/extractor/releases/download/v6.7.1/extractor-6.7.1-py3-none-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.whl
pip3 install extractor-6.7.1-py3-none-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.whl
```

Run `bars2postgresql.py` with the ytp file generated by the bulldozer, the market instruments and the database credentials

// had to change env variables to testuser, not sure if its worth it to use env variables for this step on the wiki
```bash
python3 bars2postgresql.py --database testuser --user testuser --password testuser --host localhost --ytp ore_coinbase_l2.ytp --markets "coinbase" --imnts "BTC-USD,ETH-BTC,ADA-USD"
```

NOTES ON BARS:
- ETH-BTC bars look off

# Tutorial 2

Guide to build the docker containers with our market data stack (bulldozer, extractor) connected with the syncer component and show the data in a Grafana dashboard.

## Steps

### Getting started

Run the PostgreSQL and Grafana docker containers following the first steps of the tutorial 1.

### Copy bulldozer installer to this location

Get the bulldozer installer (e.g. bulldozer-1.0.3-Linux-x86_64.sh ) and copy it to the root of the repo.

### Copy syncer installer to this location

Get the syncer installer (e.g. syncer-2.1.1.sh) and copy it to the root of the repo.

### Build our market data generator docker container

```bash
docker build -t tutotial2_1-demo -f tutorial2_1.docker .
```

### Build our docker container that populates the PostgreSQL database

```bash
docker build -t tutotial2_2-demo -f tutorial2_2.docker .
```

### Run our market data generator docker container 

```bash
docker run --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway tutotial2_1-demo
```

### Run our docker container that populates the PostgreSQL database

```bash
docker run --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway -e POSTGRES_USER=testuser -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=testuser -p 3333:3333 tutotial2_2-demo
```

#### Run the components yourself

The syncer is a component that synchronizes a YTP file in 2 different locations connected over TCP. It consists of two modes: 
* The source mode will broadcast the specified local YTP file's contents over a TCP connection.
* The sink mode will listen to a TCP Host and Port for YTP messages coming from a source and sync them to the specified local YTP file.

After you run the bulldozer component as described in the first tutorial you can synchronize the file into another location with the syncer.
Run a syncer source instance with the provided configuration file `syncer-source.ini`. You may need to change the configuration, for example the location of the file, the TCP host or port.

```bash
yamal-run -m syncer -o syncer --config syncer-source.ini --section main
```

Run a syncer sink instance on the other end where you want to duplicate the file with the provided configuration file `syncer-sink.ini`. Again the configuration may need to be changed.

```bash
yamal-run -m syncer -o syncer --config syncer-sink.ini --section main
```

Now you can run the scripts `bulldozer2postgresql.py` and `bars2postgresql.py` described in the first tutorial with the YTP file duplicated by the syncer.
